.\" Copyright Petr Hracek, 2015
.\"
.\" This page is distributed under GPL.
.\"
.TH preupg-content-creator 1 2015-10-30 "" "Linux User's Manual"
.SH NAME
preupg-content-creator \- Preupgrade assistant provides this script for faster creation of content


.SH WHAT IS NEEDED FOR CONTENT

Before content creation you know for what upgrade/migration path content is created. Like RHEL6_7, CENTOS7_RHEL_7, etc.

Each content regards to a group like database, package, system.

Please think about the name of content which regards to.

The rest of the stuff is created automaticaly by preupg-content-creator

How does it look like content creation in bash?

See example:
.nf
\& # preupg-content-creator
\& Specify a upgrade path (like RHEL6_7) where a content will be stored: RHEL6_7
\& Specify a group name which content belongs to (like database): database
\& Specify a module name which will be created (like mysql): sqlite
\& Specify a script name which will be used for assessment: (check.sh)
\& Specify a solution file which will be shown in report: (solution.txt)
\& Specify a content title: Module detects usage of sqlite database
\& Would you like to specify a content description? ([y]/n)? n
\& preupg-content-creator generates these files which should be updated:
\& - content was created in directory /root/RHEL6_7/database/sqlite.
\& - ini file which defines a content is RHEL6_7/database/sqlite/sqlite.ini.
\& - check script which does an assessment is RHEL6_7/database/sqlite/check.sh. Update it before an usage
\& - solution text which informs about incompatilibies is RHEL6_7/database/sqlite/solution.txt. Update it before an usage
\&
\& For testing content run these two commands:
\& - preupg-create-group-xml RHEL6_7/database/sqlite to create XML file
\& - preupg -c RHEL6_7-results/database/sqlite/all-xccdf.xml
\& #

.SH HOW TO TEST CONTENT

For testing your content on system follow these steps:

1. Execute preupg-create-group-xml command which checks whether your content is properly created and nothing is missing.

preupg-create-group-xml contents/[Migration_path]/[content_dir]/

2. The command preupg-create-group-xml creates XML file in contents/[Migration_path]-results/[content_dir]/all_xccdf.xml

3. Execute preupg binary as a root user:

preupg -c contents/[Migration_path]/[content_dir]/


.SH AUTHORS
Petr Hracek, <phracek@redhat.com> (man page)
